You now know one strategy to
minimize objectives,
gradient descent,
and we formulated
a clear objective
for policy evaluation,
the value error.
We should now be
able to put these
together to approximate values.
Let's return to
our old friend, Monte Carlo,
and see how it can be used
to minimize the value error.
After watching this video,
you will be able to
understand how to use
gradient descent and
stochastic gradient descent
to minimize value error and
outline the Gradient
Monte Carlo algorithm
for value estimation.
We just saw how to use
gradient descent to
minimize objectives.
To use this approach,
the first step is to find the
gradient of your objective.
So let's start by computing
the gradient of the mean
squared value error,
with respect to the weights
of our approximation.
Remember, this objective is
a weighted sum of the squared
error over all states.
Following the rules of calculus,
we can pull the gradient
inside the sum.
We then take the gradient of
each term inside the sum,
which requires the chain rule.
The gradient of v_Pi minus v hat,
equals the gradient of
v hat because v_Pi is
not a function of
w. In other words,
changing w does not
change v_Pi of s.
The gradient of the value
function approximation will
depend on the particular
parameterized function
we are using.
In the case of linear
function approximation,
the gradient is
particularly easy to
compute as we showed
in the previous video.
It is simply the feature
vector in that state.
This gradient makes sense.
The gradient of the value
function approximation
indicates how
to change the weights to
increase the value
for that state.
We multiply this direction by
the difference between
the true value and our estimate.
If the difference is positive,
it means the true value is
higher than our estimate,
so we should change
the weights in
the direction that
increases our estimate.
If the current error is negative,
we should change the weights
in the opposite direction.
Computing the
gradient for the mean
squared value error requires
summing over all states.
This is generally not feasible.
Also, we likely do not
know the distribution Mu.
Instead, let's approximate
this gradient.
Imagine an idealized
setting where
we have access to v_Pi.
Though we do not
explicitly have Mu,
we can sample states from it
simply by following the policy.
Let's take one of
these states, S_1,
that occurs while following
the policy with
target v_Pi of S_1.
We can use this pair
to make an update
to decrease the error
on that example.
Here is the gradient
for a single state.
We can do gradient descent with
this gradient to decrease
the error on that state.
So here's the corresponding
gradient update rule for S_1.
We can perform this update to
decrease the error for this pair.
Then we can do this again
with another state,
S_2, observed while following Pi.
By making small updates
in the direction
that improves error on each pair,
we might sometimes increase
the error on the full objective.
But the overall trend will be to
make progress for
the full objective.
This updating approach is
called stochastic
gradient descent,
because it only uses
a stochastic estimate
of the gradient.
In fact, the expectation
of each stochastic
gradient equals the
gradient of the objective.
You can think of
this stochastic gradient as
a noisy approximation to
the gradient that is
much cheaper to compute,
but can nonetheless make
steady progress to a minimum.
Stochastic gradient descent
allowed us to efficiently
update the weights on
every step by sampling
the gradient.
However, there is
one remaining practical issue.
We do not have access to v_Pi.
Let's see how we can get rid
of it from our update rule.
Let's replace v_Pi
with an estimate.
One option is to use samples of
the return for
each visited state,
S_t, as we did for
Monte Carlo methods.
This makes sense because
the value function is
the expected value
of these samples.
In fact, the expectation
of the gradient when we
use a sampled return in
place of the true value,
is still equal to
the gradient of the mean
squared value error.
This brings us to the Gradient
Monte Carlo algorithm
for estimating v_Pi.
We take any policy Pi
we wish to evaluate,
we choose some function which
maps states and weights to
a real number that is
differentiable in the weights.
For a given weight vector,
this v hat is a function of
state producing
the approximate values.
We choose a value of
the step size Alpha,
and initialize the weights
parameterizing our estimate
however we like.
For example, to zero.
On each iteration,
the agent interacts with
the environment to
generate a full episode.
We compute the sampled return
for each visited state.
Then we loop through
every step in
the episode and perform
a stochastic gradients and
update based on
the sampled returns.
That's it for this video.
You should now understand how
stochastic gradient descent can
be used to estimate
a value function,
and how the Gradient Monte
Carlo algorithm works.
Next time, you'll get to see
the algorithm in action.